# NFL-Big-Data-Bowl---2025
This was a Kaggle Competition in which participants had to generate creative insights and actionable predictions into what the offense or defense does after the snap. 

This analysis analyzed data consisting of about 16,000 plays from 136 games from the 2022 NFL season to try and determine how a Trips-to-Twins (TTT) type shift affects the probability of certain outcomes or events from happening. Note that throughout this analysis a Trips-to-Twins type shift will be abbreviated as TTT for simplicity. Plays involving a TTT shift were identified and compared against plays without a TTT shift and statistical testing methods were used to assess whether the TTT shift may influence the frequency of specific events or outcomes by comparing changes in percent frequencies. For example, it was found that when a defense is in Cover 6-Left pass coverage a flat route is run by the offense 51% of the time when there is a TTT shift compared to only 35% of the time for plays without a TTT shift. Obviously these percentages may change depending on the team being played, but the goal of this analysis is not to say that specific events or outcomes are certain to happen and coaches must act accordingly. The goal if this analysis is to arm coaches with high level observations that they can keep in the back of their mind while studying film so they may perhaps notice patterns that may have been missed before.

This analysis consists of two parts, the first part compares TTT plays to all other non-TTT plays and the second will compare TTT plays to only plays with double twins receiver alignment but no shift. The reason for these two different parts is to try and see what outcomes are affected purely by the pre-snap TTT shift as opposed to a simple double twins formation. If it is found that the probability of a certain route increases with a TTT shift when compared to all other plays, but shows no significant changes when compared to plays with double twins with no motion then it is likely that it is the twins formation itself which leads to the change in probability. However, if the probability of a certain route being ran shows significant difference when compared to both groups, it is more likely that the specific TTT shift led to the change in probability. Again, the goal of this analysis is to help coaches discover small advantages while watching film that they may be able to exploit during a game in order increase their odds of success.
